---
title: Head-Mounted Mesoscope
date: 2020-05-30
authors: ['admin']
layout: post
categories: ['Hardware','Behaviour']
tags: ['Hardware','Behaviour']
---
The  advent  of  genetically encoded  calcium  indicators,  along  with  surgical  preparations  such  as thinned skulls or refractive index matched skulls, have enabled mesoscale cortical activity imaging in head-fixed mice. Such imaging studies have revealed complex patterns of coordinated activity across  the cortex during  spontaneous  behaviors,  goal-directed  behavior,  locomotion,  motor learning,and perceptual decision making. However, neural activity during unrestrained behavior significantly  differs from neural  activity in head-fixed  animals. Whole-cortex  imaging  in  freely behaving  mice  will  enable  the  study  of  neural  activity  in  a  larger,  more  complex  repertoire  of behaviors  not  possible  in  head-fixed  animals. Here  we present  the “Mesoscope,”  a  wide-field miniaturized, head-mounted fluorescence microscope compatible with transparent polymer skulls recently developed by our group. With afield of view of 8 mm x 10 mm and weighing less than 4 g, the Mesoscope can image most of the mouse dorsal cortex with resolution ranging from 39 to 56μm. Stroboscopic illumination with blue and green LEDs allows fort he measurement of both fluorescence changes  due  to calcium  activity  and  reflectance  signals to  capture hemodynamic changes. We have used the Mesoscope to successfully record mesoscale calcium activity across the dorsal cortex during sensory-evoked stimuli, open field behaviors, and social interactions.
## Project Author(s)
Biosensing and Biorobotics Lab
## Project Links
https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.05.25.114892v1.full.pdf
***
This post was automatically generated by
Matias Andina
***
