---
title: 'INCF KnowledgeSpace'
date: 2020-09-30
authors: ['admin']
layout: post
categories: ['Data Repositories','Tutorials & learning portals','Human Neuroscience','Other']
tags: ['Data Repositories','Tutorials & learning portals','Human Neuroscience','Other']
---
KnowledgeSpace aims to be a globally-used, community-based, data-driven encyclopedia for neuroscience that links brain research concepts to data, models, and the literature that support them. Further it aims to serve as a framework where large-scale neuroscience projects can expose their data to the neuroscience community-at-large. KnowledgeSpace is a framework that combines general descriptions of neuroscience concepts found in wikipedia with more detailed content from NeuroLex. It then integrates the content from those two sources with the latest neuroscience citations found in PubMed and data found in some of the world’s leading neuroscience repositories. KnowledgeSpace is a joint development between the Human Brain Project (HBP), the International Neuroinformatics Coordinating Facility (INCF), and the Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF).

KnowledgeSpace is currently being developed with funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 Framework Programme for Research and Innovation under the Specific Grant Agreement No. 945539 (Human Brain Project SGA3), INCF, and Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF). Earlier development was supported by the European Union's Horizon 2020 Framework Programme for Research and Innovation under the Framework Partnership Agreement No. 650003 (HBP FPA), INCF, NIF, and the Blue Brain Project.

KS builds on a vocabulary service, populated with an integrated set of neuroscience ontologies with initial content coming from the Neuroscience Lexicon (NeuroLex), and the Brain Architecture Management System (BAMS). It links to an expanding set of data sources through the NIF federated search infrastructure.
## Project Author(s)
INCF team
## Project Links
https://knowledge-space.org
## Project Video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GQCGZOPLED0
***
This post was automatically generated by
Malin Sandström
***
