---
title: Deep Cinac
date: 2020-06-06
authors: ['admin']
layout: post
categories: ['Calcium Imaging','Software','Behaviour','Data Analysis']
tags: ['Calcium Imaging','Software','Behaviour','Data Analysis']
---
Two-photon calcium imaging is now widely used to infer neuronal dynamics from changes in fluorescence of an indicator. However, state of the art computational tools are not optimized for the reliable detection of fluorescence transients from highly synchronous neurons located in densely packed regions such as the CA1 pyramidal layer of the hippocampus during early postnatal  stages  of  development.  Indeed,the  latest  analytical  tools  often  lack  proper benchmark  measurements.  To  meet  this  challenge,  we  first  developed  a  graphical  user interface allowing for a precise manual detection of all calcium transients from imaged neurons based on the visualization of the calcium imaging movie. Then, we analyzed the movies using a convolutional neural network with an attention process and a bidirectional long-short term memory network. This method is able to reach human performance and offers a better F1 score (harmonic mean of sensitivity and precision) than CaImAn to infer neural activity in the developingCA1 without any user intervention. It also enables automatically identifying activity originating from GABAergic neurons. Overall, DeepCINAC offers a simple, fast and flexible open-source toolbox for processing a wide variety of calcium imaging datasets while providing the tools to evaluate its performance.

See full text at https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/803726v2.full.pdf
## Project Author(s)
Julien Denis
## Project Links
https://gitlab.com/cossartlab/deepcinac
***
This post was automatically generated by
Matias Andina
***
